EECS 348: Software Engineering - Fall 2023

Lab #3: UML Use Case Modeling

Objective: Understand the use case modeling and its structuring features

Due Date: Sunday, Sep 17, 2023, at 11:59 p.m.

What to turn in

A PDF file includes the use case diagram and the description (an outline) of the "make payment" use case.

Grading

This lab has 40 points:

The use case model with potential actors and use cases. [25 points]
Appropriate use of the structuring options of UML use case diagram (e.g., include, extend, and generalization/specialization). [10]
A short (outline) description of the "make payment" use case. [5 points]
A hand-drawn diagram will not receive credit.

Problem description

Consider a cruise ship traveling software application. Your objective is to describe the requirements for purchasing a cruise ticket via a UML use case diagram. You interview staff of the cruise company, and they describe their expectations as follows (normally the interview conversations are not as descriptive as what follows): "The cruise line requires a traveler to create an account with their information so their information is in the system and they can log in at a later time. To make a cruise ship room reservation, a traveler will need very common functionalities like searching for cruise itineraries, making a reservation, making a payment, making a room selection, viewing the reservation later, making changes, or canceling a reservation. Often, the cruise lines require that a reservation include two or more travelers. Thus, the process should include an option for adding additional travelers. A traveler has multiple payment options; these include paying via a credit card, a PayPal account, or direct deposit from a bank account. Each of these methods requires authentication. If a reservation is canceled, the payment (maybe full, maybe partial) will be refunded to the traveler. The traveler making a reservation could be an individual, or a group, or a person with special needs. At some point before the cruise ship's embarkation, a traveler will need to check-in. As part of the reservation process, cruise line reservations often allow travelers to check for any weather or security warnings about the destination. ..."

Model the above via the UML use case diagram. The modeling must include appropriate use case structuring features.

Visual Paradigm

Visual Paradigm (VP) is a drawing tool. It has multiple versions, such as community edition, modeler edition, standard edition, etc.  Since you only need to draw a simple use case model, you can use the free online version:  Visual Paradigm OnlineLinks to an external site.